1. Introduction
Accents are powerful markers of identities; they influence how listeners perceive their
interlocutors, thereby impacting interactions in profound ways. Research on accent percep‑
tions highlights that listeners often make assumptions about a speaker’s intelligence, social
status, and personality based solely on accent (e.g., Fuertes et al., 2012; Labov, 2006; Rubin,
1992). These judgments, with their extensive societal consequences, have frequently been
explored in the context of linguistic stereotyping (i.e., listeners attribute stereotypical char‑
acteristics to speakers based on their speech patterns) and reverse linguistic stereotyping
studies (i.e., listeners’ existing bias toward a person or group influence their perceptions
of the speaker’s language or accent) (e.g., O. Kang & Rubin, 2009; Rubin, 1992, 1998, 2012).
With the rapid development of technology and the emergence of various forms of
computer‑mediated communication, a growing body of research has begun to focus on
understanding how stereotypes are expressed, contested, and perpetuated in digital space.
Importantly, studies have emphasized that accents remain an influential factor in shaping
identities even in virtual environments (e.g., Chen & Herring, 2024; Cutler, 2020; Newman,
2014). Among the multitude of digital platforms available today, YouTube, a video‑sharing
platform, may play a crucial role in the context of accent stereotyping and identity con‑
struction. Cutler (2020) put an emphasis on the importance of identifying YouTube videos
Languages 2025, 10, 75 https://doi.org/10.3390/languages10040075
Languages 2025, 10, 75 2 of 20
featuring regionally accented speech and examining online users’ reactions to those videos
as they provide a valuable window into people’s “shifting language attitudes, enregister‑
ment, and how people position themselves in relation to certain ways of talking” (p. 36).
Specifically, viewers’ reactions to accent‑focused content can reflect underlying personal,
cultural, and societal perceptions regarding different accents.
Taking up Cutler’s (2020) call for further scholarly attention to the digital interactions
on accents, the current study aims to explore online users’ metalinguistic commentary on
English accents by considering YouTube videos that feature Korean popular music (here‑
after referred to as K‑pop) idols and, more often than not, the “nativeness” of their En‑
glish accents. In expanding circle countries such as South Korea, speaking English with
a native‑like accent is considered a desirable learning outcome (Derwing, 2003). The K‑
pop industry has experienced an unprecedented global rise over the past decade, moving
from the 28th largest global music market in 2004 to the 6th by 2020 (IFPI, 2021). With
the remarkable increase in the number of fans outside South Korea (Korea Customs Ser‑
vice, 2023), K‑pop evolved into a unique cultural intersection where international fandom
appears in numerous online platforms that spark a wide range of discussions, including
not only music genres but also political issues and language ideologies (e.g., Chun, 2017;
J. Kang, 2023; Malik & Haider, 2023). Despite K‑pop’s global presence, research on digi‑
tal interactions regarding accents has not sufficiently explored the ways in which K‑pop
idols’ English accents are evaluated by online users nor how these evaluations reflect wider
language ideologies.
Along with the global expansion of the K‑pop industry, idols are often required to be
equipped not only with musical talents but also with English proficiency to connect with
diverse audiences; consequently, their linguistic performance is subject to scrutiny and
evaluation online by fans. It is important to note that accents do not inherently reflect a per‑
son’s language proficiency. However, various English accents showcased by K‑pop idols
are frequently evaluated by their audiences as part of idols’ English proficiency. In this
regard, K‑pop, as a global trend, serves as a rich site to examine how linguistic stereotypes
are portrayed and negotiated in digital spaces. In this study, we investigate how online
users from various linguistic and cultural backgrounds perceive K‑pop idols’ English ac‑
cents. By analyzing online users’ metalinguistic comments on K‑pop idols’ English accents,
our goal is to uncover the online discourse surrounding linguistic stereotyping within K‑
pop culture.