4. Findings
4.1. Affect Toward Idols’ English Accents
In a total of 602 metalinguistic comments, as illustrated in Figure 1 above, 67.3%
(n = 405) of them indicated evaluations regarding English pronunciations and/or accents of
idols. We examine the overall sentiment expressed toward the idols’ accents and pronunci‑
ations, as detailed in Table 4. In addition, Figure 2 illustrates the overall tendency in terms
of affect indicated in online users’ comments toward the K‑pop idols’ English accents. As
seen in Figure 2, we find that a majority—88.1% (n = 357)—expressed a positive evaluation
with varying degrees of aspects out of a total of 405 accent‑related comments. It is cru‑
cial to consider the linguistic backgrounds of the idols featured in our study; out of seven
idols, six either grew up in or studied in inner circle countries at a young age (see Table 2).
Thus, the overall positive evaluation of these idols’ English pronunciations and accents re‑
flects predominantly favorable attitudes toward inner circle accents among the audience.
Languages 2025, 10, 75 evaluation with varying degrees of aspects out of a total of 405 accent-related comments.
It is crucial to consider the linguistic backgrounds of the idols featured in our study; out
11 of 20
of seven idols, six either grew up in or studied in inner circle countries at a young age (see
Table 2). Thus, the overall positive evaluation of these idols’ English pronunciations and
accents reflects predominantly favorable attitudes toward inner circle accents among the
In contrast, a smaller portion of the comments, accounting for 10.6% (n = 43), reflected a
audience. In contrast, a smaller portion of the comments, accounting for 10.6% (n = 43),
neutral stance regarding the idols’ English accents and pronunciations. Furthermore, only
reflected a neutral stance regarding the idols’ English accents and pronunciations. Fur-
1.3% of the comments (n = 5) expressed a negative evaluation of their English‑speaking
thermore, only 1.3% of the comments (n = 5) expressed a negative evaluation of their Eng-
practices. This distribution of sentiment highlights a general trend: the audience predom‑
lish-speaking practices. This distribution of sentiment highlights a general trend: the au-
inantly favors the idols’ native‑like speaking styles and their inner circle accents. In our
dience predominantly favors the idols’ native-like speaking styles and their inner circle
further examination in terms of various aspects of evaluation, as illustrated in Table 5, two
accents. In our further examination in terms of various aspects of evaluation, as illustrated
aspects, “social attractiveness” and “(non‑)nativeness”, stood out as predominant aspects
in Table 5, two aspects, “social attractiveness” and “(non-)nativeness”, stood out as pre-
throughout our dataset. These elements reflect how the audience perceives idols’ English‑
dominant aspects throughout our dataset. These elements reflect how the audience per-
speaking practices in relation to other aspects.
ceives idols’ English-speaking practices in relation to other aspects.
Figure 2. The overall tendency in terms of general evaluation.
Figure 2. The overall tendency in terms of general evaluation.
Table 5. The overall tendency in terms of aspects of evaluation.
Table 5. The overall tendency in terms of aspects of evaluation.
Social attractiveness (Non)‑nativeness Phonetic features
4.7%
(19)
Motivation Proficiency Comprehensibility Metalinguistic Aspect Examples %(n) *
Aspect Examples %(n) *
Social attractive-
젠틀섹시 조슈아... 영어할 때 더 잘생겨짐 (T: Gentle sexy
33.6%
젠틀섹시 조슈아... 영어할 때 더 잘생겨짐 (T: Gentle sexy
ness
Joshua...Becoming more handsome when speaking English) Joshua...Becoming more handsome when speaking English)
33.6% (136)
(136)
Even native Australia got shock hearing Felix’s think Aussie accent (Non)-nativeness Even native Australia got shock hearing Felix’s think Aussie ac-
30.3%
30.3% (123)
cent
Rose’s voice is very soothing and smooth (coming from an Australian, I
(123)
don’t really understand why people love our accent because to us it
Rose’s voice is very soothing and smooth (coming from an Aus-
sounds not that unique haha). It’s also interesting to see Rose’s accent
tralian, I don’t really understand why people love our accent be-
4.7%
sometimes switches to a more American pronunciation eg) rolling r
cause to us it sounds not that unique haha). It’s also interesting
(19)
sound in some words over time. Maybe from being with Jannie for so
Phonetic features
to see Rose’s accent sometimes switches to a more American pro-
long with her half kiwi half American accent
nunciation eg) rolling r sound in some words over time. Maybe
I am very impressed with Rose, and not because of her accent or how
from being with Jannie for so long with her half kiwi half Ameri-
fluent she is or how she pronounces the words. I am impressed because of
can accent
what comes out of her mouth. They are not only instantaneous responses,
3.7%
I am very impressed with Rose, and not because of her accent or
but very intelligent as well. She doesn’t just open her mouth to speak,
(15)
they are all carefully selected and well thought, and she does it in
how fluent she is or how she pronounces the words. I am im-
split second.
pressed because of what comes out of her mouth. They are not
Speech
I watched the video because of their accent but finished it with so much
only instantaneous responses, but very intelligent as well. She
3.2%
inspiration that I too can achieve my dreams if I work hard for it.
doesn’t just open her mouth to speak, they are all carefully se-
(13)
I love Wendy’s accent, like she’s so fluent in English. not like me though
2.2%
lected and well thought, and she does it in split second.
I’m not good at English and I’m not that so fluent and accent at it...
(9)
Jennie’s English is so soothing to hear. The words are so clear, like we
2.2%
don’t need subtitles to understand her.
(9)
Many people can relate with rose, so do I. we will show our different
0.7%
character based on the language we speak. I love
(3)
Speech
3.7%
(15)
* Since comments can be coded under multiple evaluation aspects, the overall percentage exceeds 100%.
Languages 2025, 10, 75 12 of 20
4.2. Social Aspects Related to the Corresponding Affect
4.2.1. Social Attractiveness
Out of a total of 405 comments, a notable 33.6% (n = 136) focused specifically on eval‑
uating idols’ English accents and pronunciation by linking these linguistic attributes to
their overall social appeal. For social attractiveness, we categorized comments that link
idols’ English‑speaking practices to the other physical and personal attributes that are so‑
cially perceived as attractive. Importantly, all 136 comments that addressed this particular
aspect expressed a positive sentiment toward the idols’ accents. In these comments, com‑
menters praised idols’ physical attributes, such as voice and general appearance, in addi‑
tion to their native‑like accents. In these evaluations, commenters frequently employed
evaluative adjectival phrases (e.g., elegant, classy, sexy) or metaphors (e.g., “she sounds
like a Disney princess”) to praise the idols’ accents and their social attractiveness. Below,
we discuss several examples that highlight social attractiveness in addition to positive eval‑
uation of the idols’ English accents and pronunciation.
(1) Korean original: 젠틀섹시 조슈아…영어할 때 더 잘생겨짐
English translation: Gentle sexy Joshua...Becoming more handsome
when speaking English
In Example (1), the commenter provided a general evaluation of Joshua’s English‑
speaking practices, who is part of the Korea‑based idol group Seventeen. It is a well‑known
fact on the Internet that Joshua, being a Korean‑American, spent his early years in Los An‑
geles, United States, until he turned 19. Given his background, it is normal for him to
communicate in English since it is his first language. Nevertheless, his English‑speaking
practices, described as “Valley girl accent” in the video, frequently come under evalua‑
tion. In particular, Example (1) indicated that his English‑speaking practices contribute to
enhancing his attractiveness by rendering him “more handsome”.
While Example (1) provided a broad positive evaluation, Example (2) concentrated
on pronunciation, differentiating between what was presumably the idol’s English profi‑
ciency and pronunciation; although the commenter did not praise the former, the latter
received an extremely favorable evaluation using superlative. The idol subject to evalua‑
tion in this comment is Wendy, who was born and raised in Korea until she was 11 years
old and moved to Canada. Thus, the user of this comment acknowledged the fact that she
is not a native speaker of English. However, it is important to note that her pronunciation
is still being assessed from the viewpoint of a native speaker. Overall, the commenter in
Example (2) demonstrated a positive evaluation regarding the idol’s pronunciation and so‑
cial appeal by performing the following: (1) explicitly distinguishing pronunciation from
general English‑speaking skills/proficiency; (2) evaluating from the perspective of a native
speaker of English; (3) connecting her personal attributes to the evaluation.
(2) She doesn’t get every word exactly right, but her tone and pronunciation are
the best I’ve ever heard from a non‑native English speaker. Couple that with
her kindness and intelligence, and Wendy really is an incredible idol
and person.
Consequently, examples (1) and (2) illustrate not only the commenters’ positive evalu‑
ations of the idols’ inner circle accents but also the connection between inner circle accents
and social appeal, emphasizing that how idols’ English accents and pronunciation are per‑
ceived can greatly affect their overall image. This relationship between social appeal and
favorable evaluation toward the inner circle accent is not coincidental; the connection be‑
tween accent and social appeal has been emphasized in this field of research. Zahn and
Hopper (1985) developed a speech evaluation instrument that includes three key dimen‑
sions: attractiveness, superiority, and dynamism. These dimensions serve as a founda‑
Languages 2025, 10, 75 13 of 20
tional tool for assessing listeners’ perceptions of speakers and have been widely applied
in research exploring linguistic stereotyping and reverse linguistic stereotyping (e.g., O.
Kang & Rubin, 2009; Rubin et al., 2016). For example, in their research, O. Kang and Rubin
(2009) found a link between the dimension of superiority and the social attractiveness of
speakers, particularly in terms of their evaluations of L2 performance. Consequently, the
insights from previous studies, in conjunction with our findings, highlight the idea that
accents and pronunciation connotate much more than mere linguistic features. They are
intricately tied to the social identities that the listener ascribes to the speakers. This relation‑
ship suggests that inner circle accents are frequently associated with social attractiveness.
In the context of the K‑pop industry, where the social appeal of idols is directly tied to their
overall fame and popularity, and consequently their success, this relationship may suggest
that the pronunciations and accents of idols, which are unrelated to their language profi‑
ciency nor easily altered by effort, can shape how fans perceive them, potentially impacting
their career trajectory in a highly competitive entertainment industry.
4.2.2. (Non‑)Nativeness
Following social attractiveness, the second dominant aspect associated with idols’ En‑
glish pronunciation in our dataset is (non‑)nativeness, which accounts for 30.3%
(n = 123) of the examples. For (non‑)nativeness, we categorized comments that link idols’
English speech to a “native” way of speaking under this aspect. Such metalinguistic com‑
mentary is often expressed by, for example, making explicit claims about idols’ native
speaker identity and comparing their pronunciation to that of inner circle speakers. The
extent to which the idols sound like native speakers is frequently referenced when com‑
menters offer positive evaluations of their speech. In a few cases, an idol’s native speaker
identity is highlighted by the commenter to rationalize the idols’ native‑like pronunciation;
in those cases, the commenter does not subject idols’ accents to compliment but instead
considers idols’ pronunciation as insignificant to comment on unless the idol is perceived
to have made a lot of intentional efforts to achieve the accent. Below, we discuss several
examples that highlight the nativeness, or the native speaker identity, of idols in a positive,
neutral, and negative light. Given the statistical predominance of positive evaluations, we
present two examples featuring positive metalinguistic comments and one example from
each of the remaining subcategories in our dataset.
(3) Even native Australia got shock hearing Felix’s thick Aussie accent
In Example (3), the commenter directs their evaluation specifically to Felix, an
Australia‑born and ‑raised, Korea‑based rapper, while simultaneously implying the un‑
expected “thick” Aussie accent the idol displayed. Instead of directly evaluating Felix’s
native‑like accent, the commenter highlights the role of the listener (i.e., “native Aus‑
tralian”) and uses the adverb “even” to emphasize the unexpectedness of Felix’s accent.
The unexpectedness is further reinforced in the comment: hearing his “thick” Aussie ac‑
cent, the “native Australian was shocked”. In doing so, the commenter conveys the idea
that Felix’s accent is not only noticeable due to its prosodic features (i.e., a thick Australian
accent), but also unexpectedly and extraordinarily “authentic”, as even native speakers
were shocked by it. In addition, the comment implies the linguistic ideology that “na‑
tive Australians” represent the authoritative performance of Australian‑accented speech
and, by extension, Australian English as an English variation. Native speakers, therefore,
are seen as the best judges of Australian‑accented speech, and Felix’s accent is considered
“thick”—and “authentic”—enough to surprise and impress those who represent the au‑
thentic norm. However, the commenter likely identifies Felix as a non‑native speaker, as
Felix is actually a native English speaker who was born, raised, and educated (at the college
level) in Australia. Lacking this background knowledge and perhaps instead speculating
Languages 2025, 10, 75 14 of 20
based on Felix’s Asian ethnicity, the commenter evaluates his Aussie accent, which might
otherwise be considered an “unmarked” aspect of his English pronunciation (i.e., speaking
Australian‑accented English).
(4) Rosé is a native English speaker but I’m still fascinated whenever she speaks
English. I just melt whenever her voice become low
Unlike in Example (3), in Example (4), the commenter makes an explicit native iden‑
tity claim for Rosé (i.e., “Rosé is a native English speaker”), who was born in New Zealand
and raised in Australia. However, the commenter stresses their appreciation of her English
pronunciation despite acknowledging Rosé’s native speaker identity (i.e., “but I’m still fas‑
cinated whenever she speaks English”). At the same time, the commenter’s remark implies
that it is somewhat contradictory to compliment Rosé’s English pronunciation while know‑
ing that she is a native speaker, as her pronunciation should be perceived as “unmarked”,
“natural”, and “authentic”, and therefore rarely subject to judgment. However, Rosé’s “un‑
marked” accent is still subject to evaluation by the viewer, even by those who are aware
of her native identity, possibly due to other social categories Rosé may be associated with,
such as her ethnicity (i.e., Asian) and bilingual (i.e., being able to speak both Korean and
English). In addition, Rosé’s English speech is marked by the low pitch of her voice when
speaking the language (i.e., “I just melt whenever her voice becomes low”). Here, the com‑
ment on Rosé’s voice in English as “becoming low” implies a contrast between the voice
she uses when speaking other languages (e.g., Korean) and the one she uses when speaking
English.
While examples (3) and (4) are both positive metalinguistic comments, Example (5)
represents instances where the idols’ native accents receive a neutral evaluation.
(5) Jennie has the most neutral accent (unless she does her NZ accent) among all
four... neither too ‘black’ not too ‘white’ nor too ‘Asian’ be it singing
or speaking
In Example (5), the commenter evaluates the English accents of the four‑member
Asian girl group Blackpink. The commenter specifically points out the “neutral” accent
of Jennie, who was born and raised in Korea and studied in New Zealand for five years
when she was 10 years old. Jennie’s English is described as “accent‑free”, as her pronun‑
ciation does not lean toward any particular accent but is considered “the most neutral”
among all four members of the group. Additionally, in parentheses, the commenter notes
an exception: Jennie’s English only has an accent when “she does her NZ accent” (New
Zealand accent). In this way, the commenter demonstrates metalinguistic awareness that
a speaker can choose which English accents to perform (e.g., “NZ accent”, New Zealand
accent), and that an English accent is not inherently or naturally tied to the speaker’s iden‑
tity (e.g., ethnicity, race), characteristics, or personal traits. Instead, the same speaker (in
this case, Jennie) can and does perform multiple accents, which do not necessarily confirm
the social categories the speaker identifies with.
Despite showing the metalinguistic awareness of accent as a linguistic performance,
the evaluation that follows by the commenter reinforces the artificial association between
accents and social categories. Specifically, Jennie’s accent is regarded by the commenter
as “neither too ‘black’, nor too ‘white’, nor too ‘Asian’, be it singing or speaking”, which
further reinforces the commenter’s prior evaluation that Jennie has the “most neutral” En‑
glish accent in her group. Meanwhile, the comment shows that accents are closely asso‑
ciated with, and are salient indicators of, ethnicity. Jennie’s accent—being perceived as
distancing itself from those ethnic English varieties (i.e., Black, White, Asian)—becomes
the most “neutral”, or unidentifiable, in terms of its indexicality to social categories. Exam‑
ple (5), thus, represents a paradoxical linguistic ideology in which accents are seen both
Languages 2025, 10, 75 15 of 20
as a performance that is not naturally or exclusively tied to ethnicity, race, or nationality
(e.g., Jennie using a New Zealand accent) and as a strong indicator of a particular social
category, such as ethnicity or race.
A few examples in our dataset negatively evaluate the idols’ performance of native
accents. Example (6) below is one of those instances.
(6) I find Jennie’s kiwi accent to be very pretentious because she was only in New
Zealand for 5 years and lived in Seoul for 19 to 18 years. She obviously knows
how to speak English without the accent. Also I believe her accent isn’t truly
kiwi anymore since she has live outside of the country for so long she would
lose the authentic dialect.
As presented above, the commenter first categorizes Jennie’s English accent as a “kiwi
accent”, referring to the New Zealand accent, and regards her native‑like accent as “very
pretentious” due to Jennie’s limited, non‑permanent stay in New Zealand and her more
stable, long‑term presence in a non‑English‑speaking country, Korea (i.e., “she was only
in New Zealand for 5 years and lived in Seoul for 18 to 19 years”). The commenter alludes
to the idea that sojourners who perform a native‑like accent are not authentic representa‑
tions of the English variant and that it is not “natural” but pretentious for sojourners to
use the accent, as they “obviously know how to speak English without the accent”—while
presuming that the idol knows a completely neural way of speaking English. The remark
that follows further reinforces the close association between inhabitant status and linguis‑
tic authenticity. Specifically, the commenter indicates that Jennie lost her once‑possessed
Kiwi accent after ceasing her sojourn in New Zealand (i.e., “I believe her accent isn’t truly
Kiwi anymore since she has lived outside of the country for so long she would lose the
authentic dialect”). Thus, the linguistic ideology communicated here is that speakers need
to constantly inhabit an English‑speaking country to maintain “authenticity” in their ac‑
cent and that they are otherwise being “inauthentic” or “pretentious” in their accented
English speech.
4.2.3. Off‑Topic
In this section, we address a brief discussion of “off‑topic” comments that do not di‑
rectly point to idols’ English accents but are closely associated with their linguistic perfor‑
mance and/or English language, such as English proficiency, because those comments, to
some extent, illustrate the linguistic ideologies we mentioned in the previous analysis as
well.
(7) Korean original: 한국은 이상한게 영어 잘 하면 무슨 엄청난 인텔리인
걸로 착각하는데 이런 풍조 좀 없어졌으면 좋겠다.
미국에서 오래 살았으니 영어 잘 하는거야
당연한거고, 미국 길바닥 거렁뱅이도 영어 잘 함.
English translation: It’s strange that Korea mistakes for great intelligence
when it comes to good English, but I hope this trend
will disappear. Since he/she lived in the U.S. for a
long time, he/she is good at English, of course. It’s
natural, and homeless people in the US are also good
at English.
In Example (7), the commenter begins by problematizing the common association be‑
tween intelligence and English proficiency in Korea (i.e., “It’s strange that Korea mistakes
for great intelligence when it comes to good English”). In addition, the commenter regards
the acquisition of good English as an expected, natural process if the speaker resides in an
English‑speaking country for a considerable amount of time (i.e., “since he/she lived in the
U.S. for a long time, he/she is good at English, of course”). In other words, acquiring good
Languages 2025, 10, 75 16 of 20
English is seen as a natural consequence of living in a country where English is predomi‑
nantly spoken, regardless of one’s intelligence, class, or living circumstances, as indicated
in the commenter’s following remark (i.e., “it’s natural, and homeless people in the U.S.
are also good at English”). This, in turn, points to a misconception that English proficiency
is solely linked to one’s immediate linguistic environment, where the speaker can acquire
the language as a “natural” consequence.
(8) Korean original: 둘 다 영어 잘해서 개멋있다. 영어 잘하는 사람 ㅈㄴ
멋있어
English translation: Both of them are so cool because their English is so
good, People who are good at English is fucking cool.
On the contrary, Example (8) illustrates a stark contrast to Example (7) by linking one’s
English proficiency with favorable traits, such as being perceived as “cool”. While it is ev‑
ident that most of the idols who appeared in our selected videos acquired their English
language skills naturally rather than through formal education, the commenter nonethe‑
less perceives their high English proficiency in a positive light. This stance is not limited to
individual admiration but extends to a broader, generalized perspective, suggesting that
individuals with high levels of English proficiency are often viewed as possessing positive
attributes, as expressed in Example (8) “fucking cool”.