5. Discussion and Conclusions
Our analysis showed that K‑pop idols who performed inner circle English accents are
predominantly associated with positive evaluations in our dataset (88.1%, n = 357), which
aligns with findings in previous studies (e.g., Y. Kang, 2012; O. Kang & Yaw, 2021). Specif‑
ically, the idols’ accents are positively evaluated in connection to two dominant aspects—
social attractiveness and nativeness. For social attractiveness, idols’ accents are largely as‑
sociated with physical appearance (e.g., handsome), personal traits (e.g., sexy, elegant, and
kind), and overall linguistic performance. As shown in Example (2), the commenter high‑
lighted English pronunciation as an evaluative aspect of the idols’ linguistic performance
despite being aware that accents are irrelevant to the idol’s English proficiency. However,
accents are subject to positive evaluation and contribute to the idols’ overall social attrac‑
tiveness. Thus, our investigation indicates that there continues to be a widespread favor‑
able view of English inner circle accents in digital space. In particular, in the context of the
K‑pop industry, the important influence of accents, although unrelated to language profi‑
ciency, in evaluating one’s English proficiency, and by extension, the person as a whole,
suggests that this linguistic feature can greatly impact the idols’ appeal and consequently
their overall career success.
The second dominant aspect (i.e., (non‑)nativeness) (30.3%, n = 123) shows that idols’
native‑like accents are predominantly evaluated in a positive way, despite a few cases in
which the idols’ nativeness is subject to neutral and negative comments. Interestingly,
many commenters showed their metalinguistic awareness toward the performative nature
of accents, which is irrelevant to the overall proficiency, while at the same time showing
a favorable stance toward idols’ native‑like accents. The notion of nativeness is still no‑
ticeable when it comes to the evaluation of one’s language proficiency. Considering the
impact of K‑pop culture on English language acquisition, as highlighted by Faiza (2020),
it is important to recognize that the widespread preference for nativeness can profoundly
shape the language attitudes of K‑pop fans worldwide as these fans may develop an unre‑
alistic aspiration to master inner circle accents. Our analysis also touches upon “off‑topic”
comments that do not directly pinpoint accents and/or pronunciation but are closely as‑
sociated with other linguistic features. In those instances, commenters showed contradic‑
Languages 2025, 10, 75 17 of 20
tory attitudes toward the capability of speaking fluent English. While some viewers per‑
ceive speaking fluent English as a “natural” consequence for those who live in an English‑
speaking country, others consider it as symbolizing desirable characteristics.
With all that being said, our study is limited in a few aspects. First, the focal video
genre appears to emphasize K‑pop idols who perform inner circle English accents as only
one K‑pop idol (i.e., RM) was neither a native English speaker nor had lived abroad. The
overwhelming attention given to—and the positive evaluation of—K‑pop idols with inner
circle English accents by the content creators of the focal video genre, to some extent, leads
commenters to focus on inner circle accents due to the underrepresentation of non‑inner
circle English accents in the videos sampled. With this in mind, we acknowledge the lim‑
itation of our study in that non‑inner circle accents performed by K‑pop idols’ are rarely
subject to online users’ metalinguistic commentary in our dataset. Thus, future studies
with a focus on online users’ evaluation of non‑inner circle English accents would shed
new insights into the focal phenomenon with less “skewness” toward nativeness in data
analysis. In addition, there are likely other factors that are associated with online users’
metalinguistic comments on the K‑pop idols’ accents, such as online users’ linguistic back‑
grounds (e.g., expanding circles vs. inner circles), as well as the idols’ gender as there may
be different social expectations toward female and male idols in terms of linguistic per‑
formance (e.g., sounds cute vs. sounds handsome). However, in this study, we focus on
linguistic ideologies reflected in the metalinguistic comments written by online users, re‑
gardless of their demographic background or the aforementioned extralinguistic aspects.
Future studies with access to demographic information of online users will contribute to
deeper understandings of linguistic ideologies associated with accented speech.
In conclusion, our analysis suggests that inner circle accents receive favorable eval‑
uations and are often linked to other positive characteristics of the speakers by online
users. This phenomenon illustrates a wider social preference that favors certain accents
over others, often associating them with higher intelligence, credibility, and social status
(e.g., Fuertes et al., 2012; Labov, 2006; Rubin, 1992). However, it is important to note that a
few users demonstrated metalinguistic awareness, challenging the prevailing stereotypes,
as seen in Example (7). By focusing on online users’ metalinguistic commentary toward
idols’ English accents on YouTube, our study broadens the scope of studies concerning L2
speech perception. For future studies, we call for research looking into different digital
media platforms, video genres, and/or online communities to see whether online users’
perception toward inner circle accents and/or accented speech may vary across different
social groups and media contexts.